you begin the sauce in a saucepan with a
medium onion and that's been finely
chopped a crushed clove of garlic a nice
fact clove of garlic and that's been
softening in olive oil and it's been
softening now for about five minutes
until it's just sort of pale golden so
the next thing I'm going to do is turn
the heat up and add the tomatoes to the
pan and a good time to make this sauce
is in the autumn when there's a glut of
tomatoes because you can make tons of it
and freeze it it freezes really well and
the rest of the year you need to hunt
around a bit because you want to get
good red ripe tomatoes and it's no good
getting the sort of pale anemic looking
ones with thick skins you need some red
right ones and they can be found so now
what's going to happen with this sauce
is that as soon as it comes up to
simmering point I'm going to turn the
heat down to its lowest point and it's
going to simmer very very gently for
about one and a half hours but the
perfect partner to tomatoes is basil in
Italy these two are just sort of married
together and so what I'm going to do
just before it comes up to simmering
point because I'm going to put some
basil leaves now I've got altogether
here about half an ounce of basil leaves
and I'm going to put a third in now just
tear them up and put them into the sauce
put a third in now and then put the rest
in when the sauce is finished and so
that's just about a third of the basil
leaves in there and then I'm going to
add some salt and some freshly milled
black pepper and then as soon as that
comes up to simmering point just give a
little stir to stir the basil leaves in
I'm going to go away and leave it to
just very very gently
cook for one and a half hours and come
back a couple of times during the
cooking time and just give it a stir now
and then what needs to happen here is
all the excess moisture evaporates and
the source reduces and reduces and the
flavor concentrates and concentrates
until you get the most out of this world
flavor of all you also have a treat
because during the one and a half hours
your home begins to smell like an
Italian kitchen and that's a very
evocative smell
when the sauce is ready and there's no
free liquid left in the bottom and you
can see just what's happened that's
where we started there and the tomatoes
have reduced down and down and down and
now there's only about I would say
probably less than a quarter of the
quantity we started off with but now
we've got all that lovely concentrated
flavor we're now going to add a little
bit of fresh flavor so the three
Tomatoes we kept aside will go in now so
that you get the the sort of lovely
mellow cooked flavor but also the fresh
flavor of the tomatoes as well now I've
got some torn basil leaves the rest of
the basil we had before the amount was
like a handful we weighed it it's half
an ounce but it's not vital them at the
amount of basil so I'm just going to
stir the fresh basil leaves in so we've
got also the concentrated flavor in the
sauce but then the fresh flavor added
afterwards and that is the classic
tomato sauce it's probably the best
source for pasta in the world
you